---
title: "Rise of Fluid Computing: A Collective Effort Of Mist, Fog and Cloud"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2019-04-01-fluid
excerpt: 'This paper is integrating Fog and Cloud computing for edge devices and forming a hybrid computing architecture called Fluid computing.'
date: 2019-04-01
venue: 'International Journal of Computer Science and Engineering'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.26438/ijcse/v7i4.6269'
---
<mark>DOI: <a href="https://doi.org/10.26438/ijcse/v7i4.6269">https://doi.org/10.26438/ijcse/v7i4.6269</a></mark>  
Every device including the state-of-the-art technologies heavily rely on computers to store and process information. Such a feat was achieved with the evolution of cloud computing. It gave consumers the ability of remote execution as well as reducing the complexity of managing the resources. The introduction of Edge computing consisting of Fog and Mist addressed the real-time application-oriented problems and provided with quick onsite solutions. Both Cloud and Edge are quite different and address different problem statements. This paper merges both the computing architectures to form a hybrid computing architecture named Fluid Computing. Fluid Computing is a combination of Mist, Fog and Cloud computing. The Fluid takes advantage of Edge by collaborating it with Cloud where the need for real-time solution provider was much needed. The paper discusses the interoperability between the three computing paradigms and solves their individual flaws by a collective effort, eventually giving rise to fluid computing. This is done by considering a use-case scenario, comparing and contrasting various feature aspects and visualizing the implementation of the technology behind it. The paper also paves the way for implementing machine learning, artificial intelligence in existing models to build smarter devices.